Rafael Ferreira da Silva is a Computer Scientist in the Collaborative Computing Group at the USC Information Sciences Institute. He received his PhD in Computer Science from INSA-Lyon, France, in 2013. In 2010, he received his Master's degree in Computer Science from Universidade Federal de Campina Grande, Brazil, and his BS degree in Computer Science  from Universidade Federal da Paraiba, in 2007. His research focuses on  the execution of scientific workflows on heterogeneous distributed systems such as clouds and grids. See http://www.rafaelsilva.com for further information.

Mats Rynge is a computer scientist at the University of Southern California’s Information Sciences Institute. His research interests include distributed and high-performance computeing. Rynge has a BS in computer science from University of California, Los Angeles. Contact him at rynge@isi.edu

Ewa Deelman is a Research Associate Professor at the USC Computer Science Department and a Assistant Division Director at the USC Information Sciences Institute. Dr. Deelman's research interests include the design and exploration of collaborative, distributed scientific environments, with particular emphasis on workflow management as well as the management of large amounts of data and metadata. At ISI, Dr. Deelman is leading the Pegasus project, which designs and implements workflow mapping techniques for large-scale applications running in distributed environments. Pegasus is being used today in a number of scientific disciplines, enabling researches to formulate complex computations in a declarative way. Dr. Deelman received her PhD in Computer Science from the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1997. Her thesis topic was in the area of parallel discrete event simulation, where she applied parallel programming techniques to the simulation of the spread of Lyme disease in nature.

Idafen Santana-Perez is a PhD Student at the Ontology Engineering Group since 2011 and a FPU scholarship holder at the Artificial Intelligence Department of the Computer Science (2012). He holds a degree in Computer Science from Universidad de Las Palmas de Gran Canaria (2008) awarded for the second best academic record and holds a ``Investigación en Tecnologias para el Desarrollo de Sistemas Software Complejos'' MSc from Universidad Politecnica de Madrid (2010).


Maria S. Perez received the M.S. degree in Computer Science in 1998 at the Universidad Politecnica de Madrid, the Ph.D. degree in Computer Science in 2003 and the Extraordinary Ph.D. Award at the same university. Since 1998 she has been an associate professor at the Universidad Politecnica de Madrid. Her research interest includes high-performance and large-scale computing, distributed systems, virtualization and data science. She is coauthor of 4 books, 7 book chapters and she has published more than 70 articles in international journals and conferences. She has been involved in the organization of several workshops and conferences, and she has edited several proceedings books and special issues. She is serving as a program committee member of several conferences. She has participated in several international projects funded by European Commission and supervised the doctoral thesis of 4 PhD students.

Oscar Corcho is an Associate Professor at Departamento de Inteligencia Artificial (Facultad de Informatica , Universidad Politecnica de Madrid), and he belongs to the Ontology Engineering Group. His research activities are focused on Semantic e-Science and Real World Internet, although he also works in the more general areas of Semantic Web and Ontological Engineering. In these areas, he has participated in a number of EU projects and Spanish R&D projects, and has also participated in privately-funded projects. Previously, he worked as a Marie Curie research fellow at the University of Manchester, and was a research manager at iSOCO. He holds a degree in Computer Science, an MSc in Software Engineering and a PhD in Computational Science and Artificial Intelligence from UPM. He was awarded the Third National Award by the Spanish Ministry of Education in 2001